Suppose you want to make a homework assignment or a review sheet for your students. The usual method for doing this would be to dig through the relevant sections in the book, select the desired problems, and either provide them with a list of book problems, or--if you're feeling ambitious--type them up yourself to provide to the students with a neat, self-contained pdf. 

However, both of these approaches have their drawbacks. If you assign students a list of book problems, you are giving them the burden of carrying around their book with them whenever they think they may wish to do homework. And typing up problems manually is very time consuming. Furthermore, as your list of assigned problems grows, so does the amount of work. You can double that amount of work if you also want to provide them with solutions later on.

Enter CalcDB, a database of calculus problems that is built with efficiency in mind. Suppose you want to make a review sheet that covers two topics: u substitution and integration by parts. You can simply click on the u sub tag on the main page, and a collection of all stored u sub problems loads up. Looking through this list, you see that there are several problems that require a bit more mathematical muscle than you would expect from students first learning u sub. For instance, here is a problem that uses u sub at first, but then requires partial fractions. To remove these types of problems from the list, simply go back up to the top of the page, and click the x next to partial fractions. Note that the partial fractions problem no longer occurs in the list. If you wish to remove all improper integrals as well, you can simply click the x next to "improper integral". What you end up with is a list of all problems which use u sub, but not partial fractions or improper integration. You can then choose to add some of these problems .... or all of them to your cart.

Now let's add some integration by parts problems. Simply go over to the search box on the left side of the screen and begin typing the tag you are looking for. Again, if we don't want partial fractions or improper integrals, we can remove them from the list, and select as many or as few of the remaining problems as we like.

Now it's time to check out. Simply click the cart link on the left side of the screen, and click download latex. Several options pop up: I can download just the problems, just the answers, or a hybrid of both. I can also download a zip file containing as many of the files as I want, or--if I am not at my home computer--I can also have the files emailed to me. Let's download the zip file for this example. Note that the zip file downloads, and I can unzip it and immediately open up the tex files inside. Simply make any changes you want to the tex file, and hit compile. If you wish to tweak this cart at a later date, simply copy the cart url into your address bar in your web browser and your cart will be restored.

This concludes our look at CalcDB. Happy mathing.
